# A Human-AI Assisted Methodology
# for the Generation of a Cybersecurity Controls Library

Abstract—Security frameworks are important tools to govern
organizations’ cybersecurity, but their creation and update require
significant time and human effort to avoid leaving organizations with
fragmented regulations. This work proposes a methodology to use
Generative AI to assist the human risk assessor, using AI to analyze
documents and recommend useful excerpts, transforming them into
controls and assisting in results review. The methodology was validated
over 55 documents, half analyzed by the human expert, with the results
compared using the AI model to tune it. The second half is analyzed
by the model, and the expert reviews the results. The AI provides a
confidence degree in the analysis and automatically highlights the
document excerpts. These tests demonstrated comparable accuracy
and greatly reduced the analysis time. Two controls libraries were
generated as case study. One for the NIST Cybersecurity Framework
2.0 regarding secure AI, the other for the NIS 2 directive.

Index Terms—Cyber Risk Assessment, Generative AI,
Human-Centered AI, LLM, Cybersecurity Framework, AI-Assisted
Methodology, AI-Assisted Document Analysis, Risk Management

Important material: 

-Prompts (Project -> Prompts): Inside this folder there are all the AI prompt developed and used for this work. "Prompt first half" and "Prompt second half" are the prompt used, one after the other, to obtain the relevant excerpt from a given document. "Prompt confidence" is used to make the AI give the confidence degrees of the analysis results. "Prompt mapping" is used to make the AI give suggestions on mapping the relevant excerpts on a framework's core subcategories. Notice that the AI require also the core to work, and that the positive example of this prompt are from the NIST cybersecurity framework 2.0.

-Documents.xlsx (Project -> Documents.xlsx): Contains all the collected documents' data, category (best practice, standard, norm) and link.

-Final prototypes (Project -> Final prototypes): This folder contains the framework contextualization prototype and the implementation guides.

-Assisted results review scripts (project -> Assisted results review scripts): This folder contains the two scripts used for the visual aid in the automated analysis results review and the launcher for both. Results.py takes in input the AI analysis generated CVS, while Match.py takes the CSV file containin the risk assessor expert analysis results and the the AI analysis generated CVS. Both automatically generate an HTML page to help in the analysis results review. It is also present a text file with the instruction.

-NIS 2 study case (Project -> NIS 2 study case): This folder contains all the material of the NIS 2 study case. It contains the resulting CSVs from the AI analysis, and the final CSV with the results reviewed by the risk assessor expert. It also contains the HTML pages automatically generated by the scripts used for the results review.
